455931|27-Year Study Finds the Amount of Insects Flying in the Air Has Declined 75 Percent|Roughly 80% of plants rely on insects for pollination.
453083|Learning from photosynthesis: Synthetic circuits can harvest light energy|Plants carry out photosynthesis by converting photons of light striking their chromophores into another form of energy known as an exciton. An exciton is an energetic state of a molecule, or closely coupled group of molecules after they are excited by light absorption. Quantum coherence is light excitation that can be shared between molecules which can enhance energy transfer efficiency. Photosynthesis describes the process plants' use to convert energy from the sun and convert it into biological energy for growth. Virtually all life on earth relies directly or indirectly on photosynthesis. Organisms using photosynthesis are able to collect sunlight energy and transport it to reaction centers where the energy may be harnessed.
452062|One step closer to crops with twice the yield|It is possible to improve photosynthesis based on natural genetic variation. This means crops could produce more yield with the same amount of soil, water and nutrients.\n Plants need light to convert CO2 and water into sugars and oxygen.
451999|New study sheds light on how earliest forms of life evolved on Earth|The earliest forms of life evolved on Earth about four billion years ago.
451640|The EPA Just Approved the Release of Mosquito-Killing Insects Grown in the Lab|Mosquitoes cause an estimated 725,000 deaths per year (November 2017)
458938|First comprehensive inventory of Neotropical snakes|There are around 10,500 species of reptiles around the world with snakes making up around 34% of that group
457581|EU trade ban brings down global trade in wild birds by 90 percent|International trade of wild birds is a root cause of exotic birds spreading worldwide. Birds are the most traded animals in the world. When wild birds are exported to another country it can lead to biodiversity loss, damage of local ecosystems, crop destroyal, and outcompetion of local birds. Before 2005, a bird group known as passerines constituted almost 80% of all traded birds; today passerine birds consitute less than 20% of trade while parrots have risen to almost 80%. Parrots are a threatened group of bird species and they are most likely to establish in countries it not naturally occurs. Latin America has overtaken West Africa in wild bird exports with a 50% global exportation share worldwide (November 2017).
456939|Report highlights opportunities and risks associated with synthetic biology and bioengineering|Artificial photosynthesis could improve carbon capture systems and provede sustainable sources of chemicals and fuel. Enhanced photosynthesis could increase yields and address food security. Synthetic gene drives can prevent disease but may be unethical. Human genome editing technologies such as CRISPR/Cas9 could improve human lifespans and health but also poses major ethical dilemmas. In the next five to ten years researchers identified possible emerging technologies such as regenerative medicine - 3D printed body parts and tissue engineering, microbiome based therapies & synthetic biology approaches to microbiota-based therapeutics. The intersection of digital information and organic DNA then expressable in living organisms.
456283|Rise in oxygen levels links to ancient explosion of life, researchers find|The Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event describes a rise in marine life, ocean floor changes to the Earth and a period with asteroid impacts. It took millions of years for the Earth's atmosphere and shallow ocean to oxygenate - major diversification of life occured when shallow seas became progressively oxygenated.


